---
layout: post
title:  "Refugees and why it is a different problem"
date:   2015-09-17 21:15:00
categories: political
---
People whom know me, knows I am not the most sensitive guy in the world. But I am really pissed about the refugee situation, but not in the general help them settle in Europe kind of way.

The problem is not that they need a place nor in fact that the are refugees. The problem is that they exists at all. Not like kill the bastards, but like how the fuck did so many arrive, and where the fuck did they come from. Well the middle east of course, but where did they come from?

In my opinion the problem is mainly based on interference from the west in the middle east. The west has tried to enforce progress in the middle east, and tried to implement a future which the culture of the middle east was not ready for.

Example, Afghanistan was, until the Russian's invasion, one of the most well educated countries in the middle east, though they where Islamic believers. After the invasion from Russia ended, Afghanistan never really rose to its former glory due to the fact that, a country like the United states backed the mujahideen, which later turned in to the Taliban, which ruled the country for over twenty years.

Then due to attack 11 of September 2001, where a power the united states of America, put in power them self. The united states, invaded a country they once tried free them self.

Stuff like this created the vast amount of refugees we see today, and no this is not a bashing of the united states. But the amount of interfering the west, have done in the middle east.

Please start not just look at the current problem, start learning from history and what we in the west should not do. Because the fact is, we created this problem our self. So we should solve it some how.

This is my political post for today.

_-Lars Nielsen_
