---
layout: post
title:  "Happy New Year and a small update"
date:   2016-01-02 15:30:00
categories: personal
---

HAPPY NEW YEAR!!!!

First I would like to wish everyone a very happy new year and hope you all have entered 2016 safely.

This post will be a small personal update, which will outline my year (hopefully) and explain why I have not posted on the blog for a while.

## Why have I not posted?
Due to my semester project. During November and December I simply did not have the time to write blog posts during the last two months of my semester project, so that is why. I should have written a blog post about it, but I simply forgot it.

## What my year will bring
* I will hopefully complete my B.Sc EE Software this summer
* I will complete some of the chapters of _Three sisters, Three faiths_
* I will lose weight (now I have a scale to measure this)
* I might publish a short story about a supporting character from _Three Sisters, Three Faiths_. Which will be a part of the entire universe for the series I am working on.

## Personal update
I am still working at Steinwurf (and hope I will for some time still), I have come to agreement with my ex that we now are ex's and finally I am allowed to drive in Germany again.

Also this it not something I have mentioned at all before. But during October I started having problems with paranoia attacks and I almost did not sleep at all. I slept like two or three hours at night and not in one go it was in small stages. Using some medicine I got the sleeping problem solved, which also helped with the paranoia problem. However between the 24 of December and new years eve, I had a couple, while I slept and it distributed my sleep. So it is a problem I still will needed to address this year. I still need to think about how to address the problem, but I will keep you updated.

_- Lars Nielsen_
