---
layout: post
title:  "Reapers"
categories: short-story
---

For years you were certain that the world was much more than humans believes and that it might not be as light, as everyone thinks. Now you might have gotten your prof, you got a letter, the letter is addressed very specific and asks you to come alone to an up town address, located in the finest quarter of town, at a certain time on a certain date.

So you are standing outside, on a certain time, on a certain date, without no idea if you are going to come out again or if you are about to make the greatest mistake in your life, by entering this house. The house, what a house, impossible ancient, yet modern, so well kept. Looks like a small castle and from what of the garden you can see, it is kept in a old British style. However, you cannot enter, the gate is closed, but there is an intercom, which has a button you can press. Do you press it? Of cause, you do, you are brave, are you not? Almost like you are not even thinking about it, you press the button and a short static noise exits the speaker, followed by a very slow monotone, demanding voice, simply ask; >>Yes?<<. You answer a bit to nervously and fast, by rattling of your name and that your were invited and so on. There is no answer, but the gate does open inwards, inviting you in. Do you enter or do you run? Of cause you enter, you came this far did you not? You slowly walk down the pebbled path to the door. As soon as you are passed the arc of the gate it closes and you are now inside, no matter if you feel safe or not. As you reach the door, a younger looking woman opens it for you, and like the rest of the establishment, she looks very British, but it is almost like she is domesticated to be British, without speaking and using hand gestures only, she invites you in takes your coat, and asks you to follow her. Shes show you into a small room, it looks like a study and with a gesture to a very comfortable looking chair, she leaves. Do you sit? Of cause the opposite would be rude, would it not?

You sit there, for maybe ten minutes and you start to get restless. Why are you here? Why are the host making you wait? What is going on? Should you run? As you finish the last thought, the door to the study opens, you had not even realised that the young lady had closed it. But this time it is not the young lady whom enters, it is a man and he resembles the house impossible ancient and modern at the same time. He has black hair, with streaks of grey and impossible sharp eyes. When he looks at you, it is like he looks past you, to see you in another world or maybe even in a different time. As he releases his, what you have come to realise, stare at you he sighs and extends his hand for greeting. He presents himself as Sir Raz, his voice is lovely, soothing, yet dangerous, and as you finish the last thought he smiles lob sided, almost like he heard you thought and enjoys the truth in it. You answer his greeting with you name and that your were invited, but you are not completely sure why. Sir Raz looks at you almost regretting, like he is not sure your are ready to bear the burden, he is about to give you. Yet, he starts speaking. >>For years, you my friend, have been certain that the world is not what it seems, that it is darker, more sinister than is shown to the mortal eye<<, whilst he speak, he starts looking at you appreciatively and almost... almost proud, like he expected this much of you, but you have achieved it before he expected. You answer slowly, confirming, his statement and you follow the confirmation, with the most important question, >>Are you one of them, those who walk this world and the next?<<. He looks at you surprised, almost like he was certain, you had not made that connection yet, again he looks straight at you and again it fells like he is looking past you to another version of you, he sighs an answers. >>Young one let me tell you a story, it is not a happy story, nor is it a story you will pass on, for no one will believe you.<<. He flicks his hand and the young lady from before enters carrying a bottle of whisky and two glass, the man slowly says >>Tia go get a third glass, for I can not tell this story alone<<, the young lady looks surprise but nodes at the man and exits the room, only to return a few minutes later with a third glass. She then pours each of you a glass, even without asking, if you want a glass or not. The man takes a sip and it is obvious that he enjoys it, from what you can tell he enjoys it more than breathing. This time the both smiles and the man again focus on you and without any introduction starts his story. In the beginning he talks about a time before genesis and a different breads of angels and their descends, where they called Embreons? But then the story moves from the former strict path, to a quite elaborate story about the expression of death in different religions and the story is told, as it was a personal experience and you assume that it is. Finally he, looks a the lady named Tia and asks her to continue, as she is more in tune, with the next generation. Tia looks at him nodes, focuses on you and this is where you notice, that her left eye is grey as the mans and the other blue like the ocean on clear day. She chuckles, again almost like she knows what you think and without opening her lips, she continues the story, by placing words directly in your mind.

But before she starts, she readies her self, straightens her back and tuck a lock of hair behind her left ear and then she speaks in your mind, >>I am Tiaran, though my father do prefer Tia, I am the concubine of death and his messenger<<, she stops shortly, searching your face looking for a reaction. Apparently she finds nothing and continues. >>I am the second oldest of deaths children, only surpassed in age by my brother Thanatos<< she stops realising your reaction to the name, Thanatos, the greek god of death. This time Tia actually laughs out loud and the man looks at her sternly, saying something about mortals not knowing the truth and that she should respect them still. Tia composes her self and continues with an apology. >>I apologise for my reaction, I just find it funny when mortals thinks that my brother is a god...<< she takes a short break, to you it seems like she is pondering what to say next. She follows it by saying >>Thanatos, is not a god, he is the first reaper and I am the second. We are a special breed of angels, we have a very specific domain, within which we work.<< She takes a short break, sipping her whisky. >>Our duties include that of Thanatos described in the Greek mythology, to guard the bounds between this world and the realm of the death, both the one in heaven and the one in hell<< She sighs, almost like it still is a daunting task to her. At hearing that thought, your are pretty sure she is reading your mind, she smiles and nodes, again taking a small sip of whisky. >>Now our duties also includes the transport of souls from here to their, certain groups of reapers take care of this, the most famous group is the northern reapers, they were knows as the Valkyrie by the vikings. We also make the first judgement of wetter or not a soul should go to hell or heaven. My brother Anubis, is properly the most famous of the judges. Though before you are completely scared of us, I will say that my father, my mother, and of cause master Peter have the final say in terms of judgement<<. She takes a longer break this time, she looks at your untouched whisky glass, then she looks at Sir Raz and then she closes her eyes for a short moment opening them. For some reason this makes her seem more vulnerable, almost like she is about to start the saddest part of her story. This makes you take a sip of your whisky and by the God, it taste amazing almost like life it self was in that bottle. Sir Raz chuckles and unlike Tia, he still speaks out loud. >>Do you not know, that whisky is from an old Gaelic word, which means water of life, you would be surprised at how true that is. My sister once blessed a whisky distiller and therefore all whisky made by the old ways, taste like life<< He chuckles again, then turns his eyes to Tia expectantly, like he knows what is coming, yet it is something he has never heard.

Tia looks shortly at Sir Raz, then turns to you. >>The hardest part however, for us is not transporting human souls, nor pass judgement, nor guard the bounds. Our toughest task are the same, but in stead of humans, we also handles the soul of death angels, both fallen and pure, and also those of Embreons... Those are the hardest, the souls of our family... Not believing they are death. How could they be, they are immortal... However, nothing is immortal, even one day my grand father might die<< A short moment passes until you realise she means the all mighty God and for the first time you are scared. Both Sir Raz and Tia looks kindly at you and Sir Raz says >>Yes... the burden of this knowledge is heavy, yet I believe you can handle it, for you already had figure most of this out on your own<< Then He turns to Tia and nodes. Tia looks surprised at this, looks at you, the at Sir Raz, then back at you. Again she sighs, takes a sip of her whisky and you replicate this action almost like it was a compulsion. Tia then begins to speak in your mind again, but her voice has change and it is clear that she is sad, very sad, you almost want to comfort her, make sure she is okay, her lips turns into a very small smile. >>Life as a reaper is tough, we are feared and hated by most, yet they do not understand that we help, both in this life and the next... Though we do not see it as two separated lives... That is the curse of the reaper, to always be unwanted by those we try to help<<. Tia stops very abruptly, looks away and try to hide that she is wiping her eyes, but she is. You do it by impulse, something you never thought you would do, but you slowly stand, walk to her and hug her. Not like a stranger try to comfort a stranger, but like she is family, maybe even a younger sibling. You try to fill the hug with love, respect and safety. The most surprising thing about this, is that she hugs you back, buries her face in your shoulder and starts to sob uncontrollably. You do not count the minutes, but hearing a close to immortal being, sobbing, that is something you will never forget. Sir Raz said that the story would be a heavy burden, but nothing will be as heavy, as knowing that an entire race of beings exists, which are only loved, by the few whom know their work and burden. You do not fully understand what it is to be a reaper, but you have gotten a glimpse into the resentment and anger their soul. Tia pulls back a bit, and looks into your eyes, studies them, like she is looking for a lie, a hidden agenda. She then looks at Sir Raz and so do you, he also are in tears, though his are silent, a deeper sorrow, something you have completely missed and then your realise, Sir Raz, it is a shorting of Sir Razaphel, the angel of death and you have just been told the story of his children and their burden. Tears slowly starts spilling from your eyes, you do not even notice that now Tia is hugging you. The she springs the greats surprise of this evening, do not be sorry my grand child, for there is enough sorrow in our family as it is. Then she turns your head towards her, she push it gently downwards and gives you a loving kiss on your forehead and starts to stroke your hair. Now you know the truth, you are a nephilim, a descendent of angel and for the first time, you are home. Tia whispers >>Yes, you are home, you are home my darling granddaughter<<.

[END]

This is again a new type of short story, it relates to the universe of my books, Tiaran has already been mentioned in another short story on the blog. This story is related to reapers and nephilim, who both have a very big significance in the book universe, especially as nephilim and Embreons are distant cousins. I hope you enjoyed it and will give some constructive criticism.

_-Lars_
