---
layout: post
title: "Qutting Thunderbird and moving to Evolution and Mail"
date: 2019-07-12
categories: update
---

![thunderbird-logo](https://www.thunderbird.net/media/img/thunderbird/landing/wordmark-high-res.png)

For years I have been using
[Thunderbird](https://www.thunderbird.net/en-US/) and really enjoyed
it and recommend it to friends, family, and colleagues, and to be
honest that is not something I do lightly. Thunderbird have been easy
to setup and use across all my machines (Linux and MacOS) and I have
not really had any complaints with it, until now. 

So why have I started to have complaints? Well the latest update I
have installed is _v60.8.0_ and for some weird reason the user
interface is no longer the same on Linux and MacOS and I have not been
able to tell why. One of the things that are different is that on
Linux the search bar for searching in mails is gone and I have not
been able to get it back. Even after a LONG! time of searching and
talking to people also people who actively develops Thunderbird. This
is bad for a guy who receives over a thousand relevant emails every
month. I even went as far as trying to uninstall Thunderbird and
reinstalling it on Linux. Next, after update to major version _v60_ I
have had nothing but problems with my Google Mail account, yes I still
have one of those, it locks up, is signed out and is in general
behaving weird. This is kind of a problem to me, as I really do not
like gMails web interface and prefer to not use it at all. Then, I
started having problems with a mail which I have
[Unoeuro](https://www.unoeuro.com) hosting for me. Basically every
third time, or so, I tried to send an e-mail it would say that I had
to type in the login information for the SMTP server, which I had
already done. Finally, the last straw, Exchange support. This is not a
problem with _v60_ but rather Thunderbird in general. At a lot of
companies and Universities, Aarhus University include, Microsoft
Exchange is used as the mail server, which I am actually not
against. This means that my mail client must provide some form of
Exchange support Thunderbird does not offer this out of the box, but
there is a plug-in
[ExQuilla](https://addons.thunderbird.net/en-us/thunderbird/addon/exquilla-exchange-web-services/)
which enables this. I love ExQuilla it made my life a lot easier when
using Exchange on Linux. However, again after updating to _v60.8.0_
problems started with ExQuilla, my credentials kept dropping for the
Universities Exchange server and I had to reset my Exchange account
often. Another thing that has been confusing to me, is that Apple Mail
provides built-in Exchange support for free and so did Nylas N1 when
it existed so it was weird to me that Thunderbird does not.
Other minor things have started to break to, but they are
nothing to write home about.

![evolution logo](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/gnome-design-team/gnome-icons/master/apps/hicolor/256x256/apps/evolution.png) 

So I started looking at alternatives I could use on both macOS and
Linux, and well I could not find a good one. BUT! BEHOLD! I found out
that [Evolution](https://wiki.gnome.org/Apps/Evolution/), standard
mail client in Gnome, comes out of the box with built-in Exchange
support. So I started playing around with Evolution and realised that
it fulfilled all my e-mails need and the built-in calendar in Gnome
also support Exchange calendar so well Gnome native apps here I came
and so far it has been a month and I am in love with these Apps. The
calendar has a few bugs when creating events, but it is like start an
event a day before but that can be solved with a drag on the event
after creation. Now these Apps are not available on macOS for well
obvious reasons, so I had to look for things there as well and I was
considering to use [Airmail](https://airmailapp.com/) by Bloop S.R.L
and I did test it, but I simply could get use to how it requires two
windows to write mails, one for the mail list and composing window. So
I looked and looked, and every time I ended back at Apple Mail and the
Calendar, and it is a bliss to use, so I am back in closed source
Apple land when it comes to mail and calendar on Mac.

NOW! Does this mean a permanent farewell to Thunderbird for me. I
honestly hope not, I love client and has been using it as my main
email client since 2005. So what needs to change? Well I would like a
nicer user interface and I have wet dreams of Emacs as an editor for
mails. I would also like to see built-in support for Exchange and a
proper built in Calendar, just start
[Sunbird](https://www-archive.mozilla.org/projects/calendar/sunbird/download.html)
again, it is really nice to have two separate apps for this. Another
thing is that the Thunderbird team release this blog post:
[Thunderbird in
2019](https://blog.mozilla.org/thunderbird/2019/01/thunderbird-in-2019/)
and it contains a lot of promises, promises I have yet to see being
fulfilled but they make me hopeful for my return one day. Maybe if I
can find the time I can help a bit, but that remains to be seen.

![sunbird logo](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/2/2e/SunbirdIcon.png)

_Notice:_ I would like to extend a special thanks to R Kent James for
ExQuilla and I am sad to here about his health problems. I hope he
will get better soon and best wishes to him and his family.

_-Lars_

