---
layout: post
title: "Why I stopped being a danish liberal"
date: 2019-03-07 10:00:00
categories: politics liberalism
---

I have been interested in politics since I was very young, I remember
discussing it with my grandmother when I was 11, how the political
system in Denmark works. From the get go I have been oriented towards
the right and even some times to the far right with regards to
financial and social politics, and if I am honest when I was young and
naive I leaned towards the far right on immigration as well. However,
when I reached my late teens I had moved closer to the mid of the
right wing, so parties such as Venstre, Konservative, and in later
years Liberal Alliance. 

For a long time I saw these parties as protectors of the people, who
believed in freedom of the people and provide a good society with
minimal interference from the government. But a shift in danish
politics have happened with the last decade, or it actually started in
2001 with the 9/11 terrorist attack in New York. The shift was that
instead of having a trusting and at ease population, the politicians
was/is now making decisions for- and leading a people which is
terrified of terrorist attacks, immigrants, and refuges. The problem
with this is that the leaders of the politicians are the voters and
when the voters are scared, the politicians capitalise on this by
implementing a lot of strict policies with regards to immigration and
refugees. The tension internally in Denmark have been hidden from the
outside for quite a while, but over time our integration and refuge
policies and how they have been tighten have reached outside our
country. However, one thing that most do not know and which surprises
most when I talk to others, is the surveillance laws which have either
been suggest or either implemented. These laws includes CCTV
surveillance, ISP customer session logging, and implementation of DNA
register. The last two have not yet been past in to law, but it is
balancing on the edge of knife. What surprised me and still does, is
that the parties which suggested this was the liberal parties that I
was such a strong supported of. I had to realise these parties was
capitalising in a manner I could not support as it was not liberalism
it was something else. They want to build a surveillance society that
hasn't really been seen in the countries which are members of European
Union since the east block exist and was destroyed in 1989 and early
nineties. 

Another thing is also that a lot of the parties, especially looking at
you Venstre, has changed from a liberal and capitalist parties too
almost solely capitalist parties, which is also terrifying as the
capitalist mentality always moves towards the money and not always
what is beneficial for the society. For example privatising DSB, a
danish railways company, have made it so bad and it was predicted by
most people.

I simply cannot stand by the ideals of these parties which calls them
self liberal and are not. Therefore, with elections coming up I am
currently reevaluating my political stand points and what I should
vote for. One thing is for sure I am still a liberal and I will help
fighting the new Stasi society that a lot of European government are
trying to create.

_-Lars Nielsen_
